---
tags:
  - Example
---

202311291519

tags : [[Logic]]

#  Natural Numbers with Successor Function is Complete
---
>[!note] Theorem
>$$
>\text{Cn}\; A_{S} = \text{Th}\; \mathfrak N_{S}
>$$

We prove the above theorem by considering Arbitrary models for $A_S$
$$
\mathfrak U = (|\mathfrak U|; \mathbf{0}^\mathfrak U,S^\mathfrak U)
$$
Since we have that every element has a successor and every nonzero element has a unique predecessor.
We have the standard set of points 
$$
\mathbf{0}^\mathfrak U \to \mathbf{S}\mathbf{0}^\mathfrak U\to \mathbf{S}\mathbf{S}\mathbf{0}^\mathfrak U \to \dots
$$

---
>[!info] Z-Chains
>For any other point $a$ in $\mathfrak U$, we have its successor, successor to that and so on. We also have its predecessor, and predecessor to that an so on.
>We also know that there are no finite cycles, so each $a$ belongs to a *"Z-chain"*.
>$$
>\dots \to * \to * \to a^\mathfrak U \to \mathbf{S}a^\mathfrak U\to \mathbf{S}\mathbf{S}a^\mathfrak U \to \dots
>$$

It is trivial to show that 
$$
\text{card}(|\mathfrak U|)=
\begin{cases}
	\aleph_{0} & \text{if $\mathfrak U$ has countably many Z-chains}\\
	\lambda & \text{if $\mathfrak U$ has uncountable number $\lambda$ many Z-chains}
\end{cases}
$$

and 

>[!note] Theorem
>$\mathfrak U_1$ and $\mathfrak U_2$ are isomorphic iff they have the same number of Z-chains.

This is true because given any 2 models with same number of Z-chains, we can make a bijection between the set of chains. And for each pair of chains liked by the bijection, we can make a bijection between its elements. This respects the successor operator and hence makes it an isomorphism between models. Using this we trivially get the following corollary.

>[!hint] Corollary 
> Two uncountable models are isomorphic if they have the same cardinality.

---
Using the above theorem and the [[Los-Vaught Test]] we directly get that $\text{Cn}\; A_S$ is complete.

We have $\text{Cn}\; A_{S}$ is complete, $\text{Th}\; \mathfrak N_{A}$ is consistent and $\text{Cn}\; A_{S}\subseteq \text{Th}\; \mathfrak N_{A}$ 
This proves the original theorem.

Since $\text{Cn}\; A_{S}$ is complete and all sentences in $\text {Cn}\; A_S$ are decidable(in the set generated by it, trivially). We have $\text{Th}\; \mathfrak N_A$ is decidable. (Just  keep enumerating all sentences until either a statement or its negation is generated.).

A realistically practical decision procedure for $\text{Th}\; \mathfrak N_A$ is given by [[Quanitifier Elimination for Natural Numbers With Successor]].

---
# Related
- [[First Order Logic]]
- [[Decidability of Presburger Arithmetic]]
- [[Quanitifier Elimination for Natural Numbers With Successor]]
- [[Los-Vaught Test]]